# Conform

The definition of conform is "Adapt or conform oneself to new or
different conditions". As this library is used to adapt your application
to it's deployed environment, I think it's rather fitting. It's also a
play on the word configuration, and the fact that Conform uses an init-style configuration, maintained in a `.conf` file.

Conform is a library for Elixir applications, specifically in the
release phase. Elixir already offers a convenient configuration
mechanism via `config/config.exs`, but it has downsides:

- Configuration is converted to an app.config or sys.config at compile time, which is not useful for applications which require environment-specific configuration, such as app secrets, connection strings, etc.
- Modifying the configuration requires you to recompile your app to regenerate the app.config/sys.config files used by the VM. Alternatively you can modify the sys.config file directly during deployment, using Erlang terms. Neither of these things are ops-friendly, or necessarily accessible to sysadmins who may not understand Elixir or Erlang semantics.
- You can put comments in `config/config.exs`, but once transformed to app.config/sys.config, those comments are lost, leaving sysadmins lost when trying to understand what configuration values are allowed and what they do.

Conform is intended to fix these problems in the following way:

- It uses an init-style configuration, which should be very familiar to any sysadmin.
- It is intended to be used during the release process, once your app has been deployed.
- It makes use of the configuration generated by `config/config.exs` as the default configuration, but gives sysadmins an easy way to tune and configure your app in production.
- Conform works by taking `config/schema.exs`, combining the schema with values provided in `config/config.exs`, and generating a `config/myapp.conf` file which can then be modified prior to app startup. The `config/myapp.conf` file is then transformed into the `sys.config` file used by the VM for application configuration. Any documentation provided in `schema.exs` is also displayed in the `myapp.conf` file, so that individuals maintaing the config are able to easily understand the constraints.
- No compilation step required.

This project is just getting started, but stay tuned for more. This will
be rolled in to exrm in the near future, as soon as this is ready for
production.

